When you go about building a model of ecosystems or
fish populations or whatever you should like to
say, you rely primarily upon marine food chain
systems to put this together? Yeah, I think the
answer is, yeah, the food chains and, of course,
also the impact of the physical and chemical
environment that you might say the abiotic
factors that are a part of the ecosystem and are
influencing abundance trends and abundance and
distribution and behavior. So I think these
things all ultimately have to be built into a
model. And food chain models are built at the
present time. There's no problem in building a
food chain model. I think the problem is really
verifying its reliability and sensitivity. And I
think this is much more difficult. particularly
if one is going to use that model as a basis for
judgment in terms of a decision of do I stop this
fishery at this point, or do I leave so much food in a
particular forage fish for marine mammals, et
cetera. Those sorts of questions
require the empirical verification of the model.
And we're not in that position at the present time.
I think we're moving towards that sort of
situation where we're measuring a sufficient
number of parameters over a sufficient time frame
that we can essentially start to put a picture
together. But I say that's still downstream. Now,
I have a lot of hang-ups with some of our existing
models. And I realize that they're deficient in a
lot of ways. They're deficient in my view, not only
in the terms of the fact that it's difficult to get
the data, but also I have some real questions about
the underlying assumption some of the single
species model, and even some of the multiple
species models that have been put together. I
guess the care, I think, that needs to be taken in
this is not to bind the hands of modelers. Because I
say this, I guess I'm a fairly applied sort of
individual. But still, I think that modelers must
essentially continue to be somewhat out ahead of
the types of information that we can put into
models. They've got to develop and conceptualize
models that provide a conception of what the
system is likely to be like. It's ultimately then
up to us that are doing some of the verification of
this is to ultimately see if we can find places
where these things seem to fit. And if they don't
fit, what's wrong with the model and how that may
ultimately be adjusted. I think modelers have
outstripped our capability of data input at the
present time. But I still don't think that ought to
in any way prejudice moving ahead with the
modeler. I guess what I do think, though, that the
minute the modeler thinks he is in a position to
make judgments that are going to influence you,
myself, and thousands of people in society, then
we better be fairly sure that that model has some
credibility. I think a lot of models, both
economic and biological at the present time, are
pretty good for textbooks, but have very little
utility and application.
Is there any exact way one can check a model? That's
what always bothers me. I don't think there is any
precise way, except that one starts to use a model
And I guess what I use the term that many of the
modelers use is after you look at some of your data
and you become fairly sure that you have a
reasonable degree of precision and accuracy in
your data, suddenly the model blows up on you. Then
you better decide there's something that the
model isn't properly taking account of. What kind
of studies are now in progress at your
institution? Well, the institution now has been
formulated into just what I told you I hope to do.
And by the way, there are four such groups now in the
country. There's one here in Seattle, one at Woods
Hole, one down in Miami, and one in La Jolla. And
they sort of take large-scale ecosystems. The La
Jolla lab deals with the tropic, semi-tropical
area. We deal with the temperate Arctic
environments. And the same thing with Woods Hole
on the other side. They do it for the northern half
of the US in the same sort of environments. And
Miami does it in the south, east part of the United
States. And so we have a very broad range of studies
under these conglomerate labs that now represent
centers. And we have been able to put the
facilities. We have probably some of the most
modern electron microscopes in the world here at
this particular center. We probably have one of
the only very highly sophisticated electronic
analysis of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon
components in this particular facility here. And
we do a lot of work for people all over the country in
that particular in terms of a hydrocarbon
analytical lab and where we essentially have
facilities that examines electronically and
looks and decides what the components are that
we're looking at, both in the tissue and both in
terms of the, well, various water samples, et
cetera. so that we have that capability. We
provide that more as a service rather than a
scientific study. In other words, we've got an
analytical facility here in hydrocarbons that is
really a lab that provides a national focus in
looking at samples coming from all over the
country. The actual studies then on, for example,
the fate and effect of, say, hydrocarbons is done
by another group here of the scientists that uses
the analytical facility as a major facility to get
some of their analysis run. But we have, let's say,
about six major areas that I'd like to point out to
you that I think are important. One, we have a very,
very strong group that are looking at the whole
area of essentially the environment in terms of
contaminants in the environment or substances in
their environment and their impact and fate and
effect on the biological community. And we're
sort of taking a whole clinical approach in that.
We're not just running the so-called, well, we
expose something to this sort of concentration
level and 50% of the animal died so type of thing.
This is the type of thing that's been done to a large
extent in many areas. What we're doing is more
setting up just like you would in a pathology lab in
a hospital, where we're looking at the health of
the animal, We're looking at it at a cellular
level. We're looking at it at an organ level. We're
looking at it at the whole animal level. We're
looking at it how it impacts on the animal's
capacity to behave and respond to various
stimuli, et cetera. So we're using a
multidiscipline approach of physiologists,
behaviorists, chemists, et cetera, and looking
at a range of things in terms of that animal. how
much of the particular substance is ingested into
the animal. We want to know where it goes in the
animal. We want to know what cellular damage it
does to the animal. We want to know how the animal is
capable of purging the toxic materials, if he is,
and over what time frames, et cetera. We want to
know how that alters his capacity to live in his
environment. And that's a very strongly oriented
program here under a fellow named Dr. Malins, who
we're coming out with. two books under academic
press on this this summer. That's a strong
component of the program up here in looking at the
impact of contamination in the ocean environment
on the biota itself. We have another very large
group that's looking at the population structure
and dynamics of the resources and the
consequences of man's intervention, both in
terms of the mortality he imposes as a result of
direct exploitation and the more indirect
consequences that he imposes on that same group of
animals through altering the environment,
either in the estuary in terms of salmon, both in
the freshwater environment or in the marine
environment. So their job is basically one of
modeling what's going on in that whole world. and
providing us the information upon which we have
direct input to the consuls for management
decisions. That's a very sort of applied thing
where a certain number of reports have to come out
on each year. This population went up. This
population went down. The complex is in this
particular situation. These are our clinical
sort of determinations of the condition of the
stock. They're highly parasitized or not, this
and that. They're growing well. They're not. And
these decisions are then ground into the
management plans which the consuls are using to
manage the resources throughout the
northeastern Pacific. We've got a big program in
marine mammals with the same sort of complex of
studies going on, of looking at sort of a broad
range of their dynamics, what's happening to
those in numbers, how man's impacting on those,
whether they're natural, how the natural
environment's impacting on those. And those are
fairly well wedded. It sounds like I'm talking
about two independent studies, but we have sort of
a matrix approach, particularly the people that
are in the ecosystem group that draw on the marine
mammal people, that draw on the people that are
doing the population studies, that draw on the
people that are overdoing the studies in terms of
environmental conservation, the group I talked
to you about looking at hydrocarbons, et cetera.
We have another group that looks in a very
utilitarian way at the whole concept How do we
develop good fish products? The government has
long had essentially a fisheries technology
program that looks at preservation. It looks at
developing new products such as fish protein
concentrate, new derivatives from oil that are
useful in the industry or in agriculture, et
cetera, so that we have a unit that essentially
works in food technology as specific as it relates
to marine organisms.
We have a group that we call, essentially,
resource survey that does a lot of the basic
survey. And we've sort of separated this out
because it's a mixture, really, of technicians
and scientists. They gather a lot of the basic data
at sea that's being used by many people in the
center. And rather than having a lot of my
scientists throughout the center that are very
high well-paid scientists after they've had some
of their early years exposure going to see all the
time, we have a group of people that are
essentially well-trained to develop
experimental design. How should a program be
developed to go out here and sample species X? They
carry out the surveys and essentially accumulate
the information and bring these back to the the
various units that are working throughout the
center that are essentially applying that
information in their science. So it's really the
at-sea group. It does have a kernel of top
scientists that know what that business is all
about. Underneath that, there's a broad range of
technicians that are going to see taking water
samples, measuring fish, taking age samples,
looking at the gut of fish and looking for
parasitization and collecting tissue samples,
et cetera. I probably missed something. Oh, we
have another group that's majorly involved in
developing better tools to do the job. There are,
in other words, engineers, engineered
biologists group that are saying if a guy over here
needs this type of patrol to carry out his
sampling, he takes it to them and essentially they
put it together. If you want to know how
effectively that is, they do the measurements.
They set up the acoustical arrays for the system.
They set up the underwater televisions for the
people, et cetera. And I guess they're what we call
gear technicians and gear specialists that
essentially take on specific tasks. For example,
they're the group that's tied up in solving this
porpoise tuna program down in California. We've
let our key engineer that's involved in design of
nets to go down there and design and work with the
industry in designing a net that will essentially
selectively take the tuna while at the same time
having minimum impact on the porpoise of the area.
We have the same thing going on in the North Pacific
where we've got a conflict between fishermen who
fish for crab, don't want to see trawlers bring
their nets through and kill off a lot of their
crawls and trawls, excuse me, their crabs in a
certain area. These people then looking at
designing, can I design a trawl that fishes one and
a half meter off the bottom, takes most of the fish
the trawler is interested in, but doesn't bother
the crabs. And this has been quite successful.
We're now in an era, I think, over the next 20 years,
if we're really going to have effective
utilization and not, while you're out trying to
get one species, be destroying 15 others, is
develop systems that are essentially what we call
selective harvest methods. in terms of having
minimum impact or consequences on other elements
of the biota. And that's their major job.
Now, one of the gentlemen who worked for you, whom I
talked to yesterday, is very optimistic about
what amounts to mariculture.
That's one I missed. I'm sorry I did that, because I
support that program over at Manchester. We have
an aquaculture mariculture program. We also,
some of our food technologists are involved with
this. And again, I say we have a matrix of people. We
have some of our physiologists and
nutritionalists that are over working with our
people at Manchester, which is our facility to do
this sort of work at the center here. We also have
one up at Oak Bay. And we see some major
possibilities, particularly over the long term,
of making some major advances in this area. And so I
think you're reasonably optimistic concerning
it too. Is that fair to say? Yeah, but I don't like to
go out. I think there's been a little, and I know in
your part of the world, you've probably run into
this, a little over-optimistic that you can do
things overnight where you've got to develop the
technical capability, the engineering
capability. You've got to get into the genetics
area like we've done in many aspects of
agriculture so that we ultimately are growing the
right thing in the right environment with minimal
cost and labor input into it.
You're giving advice to a young student. What
specific kind of oceanography would you ask him to
go to? Well, you know, I think the whole field is a
tremendously interesting area, and there's so
many interesting things going on in the ocean, I
don't like to say one is more important than the
other. I'm going to sound like a contradiction,
but I really think when I'm watching, by the way,
I'm a professor over at the university, and I'm in
the Institute of Marine Studies in the College of
Fisheries. I think the numbers of people coming
out in the biological area are more than adequate,
let's say, to fill the jobs. In fact, we may be
getting too many people in this particular area.
And I think it would be unfortunate that if we
encourage more people than there are jobs,
particularly if that's why they took the
education. Because I can just see us getting in a
position with a large number of people trained up
for PhDs and adequate number of jobs. I see some
other areas coming on, though. The whole area of
deep sea mining and the nodule business and the
environmental consequences of that activity.
the engineering aspects of that type of activity.
I guess where I see the greatest demand, and this is
going to be a very difficult task,
in oceanography in the future, other than the pure
sciences, is really people who are capable of
dealing with multiple-use conflicts. going to
have conflicts between the people who want to mine
and take sand and gravel and the people who want to
develop transportation and facilities and
people are going out after oil and essentially
just a tremendous you might say invasion of the
oceans in terms of both for its resources for
recreational purposes and each one of these has an
interaction and i guess those individuals who
have some perception in a broad sense of the
multiple use conflicts and can draw on the
scientists in the special specialities in an
effective way are they going to be the people in
terms of a managerial sense that are going to
answer questions in a scientific sense i think all
the all the areas are still extremely interesting
and and i think they're moving ahead whether it's
in biology physical oceanography geological
oceanography biological oceanography, I think
the whole range is still pretty wide open. I guess
I'm just sort of drawn up in it. I don't like to say,
boy, there's only one interesting field in
oceanography, because there isn't. But I think
oceanography and oceanographers have had to come
to grips with something that some of them don't
like all that well, is they're being forced more
and more to orient some of their activities toward
problem areas. And that big problem area I see is
multiple use conflict over the next two to three
decades.